---
number headings: auto, first-level 1, max 6, 1.1
---
# 1 RM
## 1.1 Objctives of research
- Explorative or formulative
- descriptive 
- diagnostic
- hypothesis testing
## 1.2 Types of research
- |Descriptive| VS Analytical|
|---|---|
|Expostfacto|-|
 
- Applied vs fundamental
- |Qualitative| VS Quantitative|
|---|---|
|-|Motivation, attitude|
- |Conseptual |VS Emperical|
|---|---|
|abstract| exprienance?|
- Othe Types
	- One time or Logitudnal
	- Field setting or Laboratory
	- Clinical or Diaganostical
	- |Exploratory |or formalized|
	|---|---|
	|dev of hypo|Testingof hypo|
	- Historical(Books)
	- |Concution oriented |or desition oriented|
	|---|---|
	|free to pick problem|not free|

## 1.3 Reseacrch aproaches
| Qualitative | Quantitative |
| ----------- | ------------ |
| Subjective  | Inferential  |
|             | experimental |
|             | Simulation   |
## 1.4 Research Methods versus Methodology
### 1.4.1 Method
- Research methods may be understood as all those methods/techniques that are used for conduction of research
	- Research techniques refer to the behaviour and instruments we use in performing research operations
	- Research methods refer to the behaviour and instruments used in selecting and constructing research technique.
- We can say that methods are more general
### 1.4.2 Methodology
- Science of studying how research is done scientifically.
- Way to systematically solve the research problem.
- It is necessary for the researcher to design his methodology for his problem, as the same may differ from problem to problem
## 1.5 Scientific
- Open mind
- Curiosity
- Critical thinking
- Presupposes ethical neutrality
- Critical scrutiny
- Results into probabilistic predictions;
## 1.6 Research process
- Series of actions or steps necessary to effectively carry out research
- Research process consists of a number of closely related activities
- such activities overlap continuously rather than following a strictly prescribed sequence.
1. Formulating the research problem
2. Extensive literature survey
	- one source will lead to another. The earlier studies, if any, which are similar to the study in hand should be carefully studied
3. Development of working hypotheses
	- Discussions with colleagues and experts about the problem
	- Examination of data and records
	- Review of similar studies
4. Preparing the research design
	- collection of relevant evidence with minimal expenditure of effort, time and money
5. Determining sample design
	- . With probability samples each element has a known probability of being included in the sample but the non-probability samples do not allow the researcher to determine this probability.
	- random sampling so that bias can be eliminated and sampling error can be estimated.
6. Collecting the data
7. Execution of the project
8. Analysis of data
	- condensed into a few manageable groups and tables for further analysis.
9. Hypothesis-testing
	- . Hypothesis-testing will result in either accepting the hypothesis or in rejecting it. If the researcher had no hypotheses to start with, generalisations established on the basis of data may be stated as hypotheses to be tested by subsequent researches in times to come.
10. Generalizations and interpretation
	- In to theory
11. Preparation of the report or the thesis

## 1.7 Criteria of Good Research
- Good research is systematic: The systematic characteristic of the research does not rule out creative thinking, but it certainly does reject the use of guessing and intuition in arriving at conclusions.
- Good research is logical:
- Good research is empirical:
- Good research is replicable:
## 1.8 Problems Encountered by Researchers in India
- The lack of a scientific training in the methodology of research
- funding
- plagiarism
- Information/data obtained from a business unit will not be misused.
- inter-university and ininterdepartmentalivalries are also quite common.
- Library management


