---
number headings: auto, first-level 1, max 6, 1.1
---

# 1 MEANING OF RESEARCH DESIGN
- “A research design is the arrangement of conditions for collection and analysis of data in a manner that aims to combine relevance to the research purpose with economy in procedure.” 
- blueprint for the collection, measurement and analysis of data.
- In brief, research design must, at least, contain—(a) a clear statement of the research problem; (b) procedures and techniques to be used for gathering information; (c) the population to be studied; and (d) methods to be used in processing and analysing data.
	1. the sampling design
	2. the observational design
	3. the statistical design
	4. the operational design
# 2 NEED FOR RESEARCH DESIGN
- it facilitates the smooth sailing of the various research operations, thereby making research as efficient minimal expenditure of effort, time and money.
# 3 FEATURES OF A GOOD DESIGN
- flexible, appropriate, efficient, economical
- minimises bias and maximises the reliability
- smallest experimental error
# 4 IMPORTANT CONCEPTS RELATING TO RESEARCH DESIGN
## 4.1 Dependent and independent variables: 
- Phenomena which can take on quantitatively different values even in decimal points are called ‘continuous variables’
- Integer values => discreate variables
- If one variable depends upon or is a consequence of the other variable, it is termed as a **dependent** variable, and the variable that is antecedent to the dependent variable is termed as an **independent** variable.
## 4.2 Extraneous variable:
- Independent variables that are not related to the purpose of the study, but may affect the dependent variable
- Whatever effect is noticed on dependent variable as a result of extraneous variable(s) is technically described as an ‘experimental error’.
## 4.3 Control:
- minimise the influence or effect of extraneous variable(s).
## 4.4 Confounded relationship:
- When the dependent variable is not free from the influence of extraneous variable(s), the relationship between the dependent and independent variables is said to be confounded by an extraneous variable(s).
## 4.5 Research hypothesis:
- When a prediction or a hypothesised relationship is to be tested by scientific methods, it is termed as research hypothesis.
- relates an independent variable to a dependent variable.
- research hypothesis must contain, at least, one independent and one dependent variable.
## 4.6 Experimental and non-experimental hypothesis-testing research:
- When the purpose of research is to test a research hypothesis, it is termed as hypothesis-testing research.
- Research in which the independent variable is manipulated is termed ‘experimental hypothesis-testing research’ and a research in which an independent variable is not manipulated is called ‘non-experimental hypothesis-testing research’
## 4.7 Experimental and control groups:
- In an experimental hypothesis-testing research when a group is exposed to usual conditions, it is termed a ‘control group’, 
- when the group is exposed to some novel or special condition, it is termed an ‘experimental group’
## 4.8 Treatments:
- The different conditions under which experimental and control groups are put are usually referred to as ‘treatments’
## 4.9 Experiment:
- The process of examining the truth of a statistical hypothesis, relating to some research problem
- absolute experiment and comparative experimen
## 4.10 Experimental unit(s):
- The pre-determined plots or the blocks, where different treatments are used, are known as experimental units
# 5 BASIC PRINCIPLES OF EXPERIMENTAL DESIGNS
## 5.1 Principle of Replication
- experiment should be repeated more than once.
- statistical accuracy of the experiments is increased.
## 5.2 Principle of Randomization
- provides protection, when we conduct an experiment, against the effect of extraneous factors by randomization.
## 5.3 Principle of Local Control
- the known source of variability, is made to vary deliberately over as wide a range as necessary and this needs to be done in such a way that the variability it causes can be measured and hence eliminated from the experimental error.
- 